it's called the ultimate ruffler because
it's absolutely the easiest way to make
ruffles and pleats with your sewing
machine the puff panel and ruffle at the
bottom of this christening gown were
both done with the ultimate ruffler you
control how many stitches between each
ruffle by moving this into the various
slots the first slot is every stitch the
next is every six stitches the 12 slot
is every 12 stitches you turn this screw
to adjust the depth of your gathers so
they're at the standard two to one ratio
you'll want to sew some test pieces
until you get this the foot snaps onto
your machine with the black plastic arm
going over the needle screw here's how
it looks from the back of the machine
choose a straight stitch feed your
fabric into this slit and begin sewing
the foot has made a gather with each
stitch now we're going to change it to
once every six stitches by lifting the
arm and moving it over one slot and
we'll tighten the screw to deepen the
pleats feed your fabric through the slit
and now the machine makes it gather
every six stitches at this distance
apart these would be considered pleats
rather than gathers now we'll change to
one gather every twelve stitches by
moving this to the third slot will
deepen the gathers even more by turning
the screw feed your fabric into the slit
and begin sewing your pleats are set
even further apart